And that brings us to our second option when it comes to fine tuning our audio.
Now, there's a few ways to do this, but to be honest, the way I used to do it back in the day would
be to go on YouTube.
OK.
And I would basically type in like cave sound effect, because that's the look that we're going for
in this scenario.
It's this really cool cave underground.
And we don't really have the right sound.
OK.
As an editor, you have to listen to this and ask yourself, is this what the audience should hear right
now?
This is a little bit Lord of the Rings like it sounds a little bit too haunted.
Yeah, it sounds like there's some weird Dracula like that's it's that's too much.
But the goal is to find.
A sound that makes the visuals look better in the visuals, make the sound sound even better if that
makes sense.
The same way we made our visuals of our ending shot looked better by adding updated sound.
Right, that helped to transport the audience to that specific place.
So you can go through here if you find one you like.
Generally, these people that are giving it away for free will have a download link in the description
of the video.
I personally used to do it that way, but now I use epidemic's sound for all of my sound effects.
So I would search cave.
Sound effects.
And I can't say that I would recommend ripping stuff off YouTube or SoundCloud or any of the platforms
when you're not paying for it.
So what I'm saying, do what you need to do, but do it legally and do it with permission from the owners
of the material.
I use epidemic because I'm paying for it, and that's giving the usage to these sounds for my projects.
So I would do the same process.
So the process is the same.
I'm going to go through this list of sounds until I land on the one that feels just right.
It's got the right amount of vibe, but it's not too fake sounding.
And it really feels right when I drop it in with my visuals.
And so now I went through and I found the sound effects that will match up perfectly for my scenario.
So what I'm going to do is create a new folder, because these are new media assets going into our edit,
and I'm going to title this sound effects.
Now, this folder is in the original folder that we create at the very beginning of this edit to keep
everything in one place.
Because when you move stuff around and then you reopen that editing session, if stuff is missing and
not in the original folder, you're going to have missing content and it's not going to be able to be
in your actual video.
So that is another reason why we keep everything organized.
So what I'm going to do is drag in the sounds that I downloaded.
OK.
And then now I'm going to drag this sound effects folder into my actual editing session.
Now we have our sound effects here.
So we have one sound.
It's a bit of a water sound, OK?
And I'm going to drag that in and you can be doing the same for your edit if there's something that's
not really matching up and you need better audio.
Drag it in, bring it in, and let's do this side by side here.
So I'm going to create our key frame so we can create a smooth fade in and fade out.
I'm going to bring the audio levels way down.
I'm going to delete the old talking that was attached to the original video because we don't want that.
Let's see how this water sounds with the cave.
Let's move on to the second layer of sound.
Now, I'm mixing two sounds here because I want people to really feel what I'm showing on screen so
you don't have to restrict yourself to just one layer of sound for any kind of shot.
You can have multiple layers to create more depth to create more of a dynamic kind of sound design.
So let's see what the second layer sounds like.
So kind of a cool win going through a tunnel kind of sound.
And the key here is subtlety.
If it's like on in your face, it's going to feel fake and it's going to instantly be heard as something
that feels off to your viewer when they're watching your video.
So the key here, subtlety.
OK, we're going to bring this level way down.
We have a crossfade in.
OK.
It's still too high.
OK, let's play that back.
If we take a look at how this feels when we look at it.
Compared to the original.
Pretty big difference, and of course, you can really fine tune this as much as possible, as much
as you feel needed to really lock in that look and feel that you're going for in the next lecture,
we're going to do a very basic overall color correction, color grading, pass on your footage.
And we're going to keep it simple for this one.
And we're going to see what we can do just to kind of boost the overall coloring and the overall brightness
and sharpness of our image.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.